README.md, before:

# 🌱 Green Next.js Boilerplate

A Next.js boilerplate optimized to minimize environmental impact with maximum performance and reduced carbon footprint.

## 🎯 Goals

This project aims to create a starting point for Next.js applications by prioritizing:

- **Energy performance**: Optimized code to reduce CPU/memory consumption
- **Minimal data transfer**: Reduced bundle size and network optimizations
- **Green hosting**: Ready-to-use configuration for eco-responsible hosts
- **Ecological monitoring**: Tools to measure environmental impact

## ✨ Eco-friendly Features

### 🚀 Technical Optimizations

- **Smart bundle splitting** with impact analysis
- **Advanced compression** (Brotli, Gzip)
- **Optimized images** with next-gen formats (WebP, AVIF)
- **Aggressive lazy loading** of components
- **Service Worker** for optimal caching
- **Selective preloading** of critical resources

### 📊 Environmental Monitoring

- Built-in carbon impact dashboard
- Energy consumption metrics
- Automatic optimization reports
- Eco-responsible Core Web Vitals tracking

### 🌍 Green Configuration

- Environment variables for green hosts
- Optimized deployment scripts
- Eco-responsible CDN configuration
- Smart caching strategies

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Next.js 14+** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for robust code
- **Tailwind CSS** with aggressive purging
- **Custom Bundle Analyzer**
- **ESLint/Prettier** with eco-responsible rules
- **Lighthouse CI** for continuous auditing

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/green-nextjs-boilerplate.git
cd green-nextjs-boilerplate

# Install dependencies (with optimized npm cache)
npm ci

# Run in development mode
npm run dev:green

# Optimized production build
npm run build:green

# Analyze environmental impact
npm run analyze:carbon
```

## 📈 Performance Metrics

- **Bundle size**: < 100KB (First Load JS)
- **Lighthouse Performance**: > 95
- **Carbon footprint**: < 0.5g CO2 per page view
- **Time to Interactive**: < 2s
- **Cumulative Layout Shift**: < 0.1

## 🌿 Best Practices Included

### Code

- Components optimized for tree-shaking
- Custom hooks for efficient state management
- Utils for carbon impact calculation
- Eco-responsible development patterns

### Deployment

- Optimized Vercel/Netlify configuration
- Smart cache headers
- Automatic compression
- Performance monitoring

### Development

- Pre-commit hooks for impact analysis
- PR templates with green checklist
- Best practices documentation
- Automatic optimization scripts

## 🔧 Configuration

The boilerplate includes ready-to-use configurations:

- Performance-optimized `next.config.js`
- Smart purging `tailwind.config.js`
- Eco-responsible `.eslintrc.js` rules
- `carbon-config.json` for monitoring

## 📊 Monitoring Dashboard

Built-in interface to track:

- Real-time carbon impact
- Performance metrics
- Suggested optimizations
- Baseline comparison

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Check the [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for eco-responsible best practices.

## 📄 License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.

## 🌍 Recommended Hosts

- **Vercel** (renewable energy)
- **Netlify** (carbon neutral)
- **Railway** (green infrastructure)
- **PlanetScale** (eco-responsible database)

---

**💚 Built with environmental consciousness**

_This project is part of the initiative for a more sustainable web. Every optimization counts!_

Commit message:

docs: added CONTRIBUTE.md and added green suggestions to README.md

README.md, after:

# 🌱 Green Next.js Boilerplate

A Next.js boilerplate optimized to minimize environmental impact with maximum performance and reduced carbon footprint.

## 🎯 Goals

This project aims to create a starting point for Next.js applications by prioritizing:

- **Energy performance**: Optimized code to reduce CPU/memory consumption
- **Minimal data transfer**: Reduced bundle size and network optimizations
- **Green hosting**: Ready-to-use configuration for eco-responsible hosts
- **Ecological monitoring**: Tools to measure environmental impact

## ✨ Eco-friendly Features

### 🚀 Technical Optimizations

- **Smart bundle splitting** with impact analysis
- **Advanced compression** (Brotli, Gzip)
- **Optimized images** with next-gen formats (WebP, AVIF)
- **Aggressive lazy loading** of components
- **Service Worker** for optimal caching
- **Selective preloading** of critical resources

### 📊 Environmental Monitoring

- Built-in carbon impact dashboard
- Energy consumption metrics
- Automatic optimization reports
- Eco-responsible Core Web Vitals tracking

### 🌍 Green Configuration

- Environment variables for green hosts
- Optimized deployment scripts
- Eco-responsible CDN configuration
- Smart caching strategies

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Next.js 14+** with App Router
- **TypeScript** for robust code
- **Tailwind CSS** with aggressive purging
- **Custom Bundle Analyzer**
- **ESLint/Prettier** with eco-responsible rules
- **Lighthouse CI** for continuous auditing

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/green-nextjs-boilerplate.git
cd green-nextjs-boilerplate

# Install dependencies (with optimized npm cache)
npm ci

# Run in development mode
npm run dev:green

# Optimized production build
npm run build:green

# Analyze environmental impact
npm run analyze:carbon
```

## 📈 Performance Metrics

- **Bundle size**: < 100KB (First Load JS)
- **Lighthouse Performance**: > 95
- **Carbon footprint**: < 0.5g CO2 per page view
- **Time to Interactive**: < 2s
- **Cumulative Layout Shift**: < 0.1

## 🌿 Best Practices Included

### Code

- Components optimized for tree-shaking
- Custom hooks for efficient state management
- Utils for carbon impact calculation
- Eco-responsible development patterns

### Deployment

- Optimized Vercel/Netlify configuration
- Smart cache headers
- Automatic compression
- Performance monitoring

### Development

- Pre-commit hooks for impact analysis
- PR templates with green checklist
- Best practices documentation
- Automatic optimization scripts

## 🔧 Configuration

The boilerplate includes ready-to-use configurations:

- Performance-optimized `next.config.js`
- Smart purging `tailwind.config.js`
- Eco-responsible `.eslintrc.js` rules
- `carbon-config.json` for monitoring

## 📊 Monitoring Dashboard

Built-in interface to track:

- Real-time carbon impact
- Performance metrics
- Suggested optimizations
- Baseline comparison

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Check the [contribution guide](CONTRIBUTE.md) for eco-responsible best practices.

### 💡 Green Suggestions

We actively encourage the community to share eco-friendly ideas and optimizations:

- **Performance optimizations** that reduce energy consumption
- **Bundle size reductions** and code splitting strategies  
- **Green hosting** recommendations and configurations
- **Carbon footprint** measurement tools and techniques
- **Sustainable development** practices and patterns
- **Energy-efficient** UI/UX design principles

Submit your green suggestions via:
- 🌱 Issues labeled with `green-suggestion`
- 🔥 Pull requests with environmental impact measurements
- 📊 Performance benchmarks before/after optimizations

## 📄 License

MIT License - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.

## 🌍 Recommended Hosts

- **Vercel** (renewable energy)
- **Netlify** (carbon neutral)
- **Railway** (green infrastructure)
- **PlanetScale** (eco-responsible database)

---

**💚 Built with environmental consciousness**

_This project is part of the initiative for a more sustainable web. Every optimization counts!_
